okay without further ado i gotta move on
because i could just you know have
conversations all day um
our next speaker is an artist who i've
worked with a lot over the past year
she was in the pieces of me show at
transfer gallery among among other
projects and initiatives
i'm really thrilled to be announcing um
i'm really thrilled to be announcing
oria harvey um who is going to be
talking to us next oria is an artist
producing simulations and sculptures
that bridge physical and digital space
after plumbing the depths of net art and
video games uh everyone should go check
out tale of tales amazing um she has now
turned her attention to digital
sculpture 3d printing and mixed reality
the work is presented as sculptures that
blend digital and handmade production
she is half of the artist duo entropy 8
super tale of tales song of songs known
for their pioneering works in internet
art video games in xr oria lives in rome
and she's a professor of games at coons
talk school castle she was part of the
curated christie's auction proof of
sovereignty in 2021 this year and her
work can be found in the permanent
collections of the walker art center san
francisco museum of modern art the lot
55 the lot 555 nft exhibition and
rhizomes net art anthology her video
games and vr works have had
international success including
exhibitions at the tingley museum in
basel the victorian albert in london the
new museum in new york the brooklyn
academy of music um and z zaika m
karlsruhe
she's the recipient of a creative
capital grant and a winner of the
independent games festival nuovo award
and she is represented by bitform's
gallery in new york city
she's wonderful and i'm really thrilled
to have her with us today uh on to on to
ori and we'll be back with you in just a
few minutes
hello
my name is oria harvey
and i want to thank the organizers of
the gray area festival for allowing me
to give a talk to you today
i'm going to share my screen
i'm a sculptor and
real-time artist
meaning i make video games and other
types of simulations that run in game
engines
i'm based in rome italy
but my history is in net art
and as i said video games
and now i have branched out into
physical sculpture as well
um
i'm here to talk to you today about
mythology
but i've broken it up into a few
different categories ways that i like to
think about it lenses you might say
through which i like to view mythology
and world building um
in my practice
so first we're going to talk about
paradise
the best paradise i can think of
is a game that i made uh along with my
partner mikhail samin
um as tale of tales and this was the
very first video game that we released
and it's called the endless forest
the endless forest is a multiplayer game
where everyone plays a deer
and uh so every single one of those deer
that you see in this screenshot is a
person at a computer
our idea behind this game was that your
computer goes to sleep and it wakes up
in this forest
and you are able to do only things that
a deer can do you suddenly transform
yourself into an animal who can only do
like operate through the world
and communicate via body language and
um and you can only run through the
forest
and see what there is to see there
so it looks like a normal sort of
simulated forest environment
and you greet the other deer and you
find a way to communicate because
there's no text chat in the game
and there's no names there's only these
glowing uh symbols between the antlers
which allow you to identify one another
and to me this was a way that we built a
kind of utopia where you learn to
understand one another without really
having to
understand one another and the people
who play the game actually
started coming up with their own sort of
language a way of moving that
communicates with each other in the game
and that's actually kind of magical
um the way that the world operates
however is it's usually just this very
idyllic
sunny forest but then sometimes the rain
starts or sometimes something else
strange occurs and that is the presence
of what i call what we call the
characters in the game um call the twin
gods
and um
what happens is there can be certain
points in the forest where magic a locus
of magic occurs where so here we have
like this fountain where if you drink
from it you're going to um transform
again uh from a deer into another type
of animal a rabbit or a bird or a bat or
something like this
and um we did this also
to sort of manifest that magic in the
world
but the twin gods are present most
present on twin gods hill where we have
these two statues um that are
representing them
and um the game is really uh about this
kind of beauty that one can feel in a
forest
you know so we try to keep it natural
but then um when the twin gods are
active and they're floating through the
forest everything becomes very crazy and
chaotic and um
and these are actually kind of festive
occasions when a lot of players come and
witness this kind of
um
party atmosphere
in the world um but i really think that
this game um is a
i mean
good example of what can happen when you
look to a paradise example
for a game world or a war to build a
world
and think about all the details of what
people are going to do and experience in
that world and i hope you will download
it and
play it
now i want to talk about a project that
or a few projects that um michael and i
worked on
in the mid 2000s uh like 2011 through
2013-ish
um
and these projects uh were built around
the idea of everything
in some ways it was it was about the
universe ostensibly at least from my
point of view i wanted to make a model
of the universe
but we had other concerns also in there
where we were thinking about humanity
and its place in the universe making a
video game about such a subject would be
challenging for anyone but for us it
proved impossible
um and so we had to split this idea up
um this what you're seeing now is my
sketchbook from that time
where i was attempting to look at and
analyze various
visions of the universe
or ways of measuring
universe
things like stars star charts
i was also thinking about humans and how
we have tried to chart the universe
through our bodies like through chakras
and other types of systems where we've
tried to internalize um the universe
um
but
what happened was um we made a few
prototypes
[Music]
this being one of them
this one is called flower lock
and it's from 2012 and i always look at
this
it's easy to idealize a project that
never was really completed um and i kind
of do that with this this video because
this is all that's left of this
interactive prototype that we made and
it was making sort of a game out of
these cosmological diagrams where
you see the earth in its center and the
universe the planets are represented by
celestial spheres like sort of radiating
out from the earth in the center and so
i was trying to find a way to to gamify
that for lack of a better word
and
and we made this beautiful prototype um
that never went anywhere unfortunately
but i think about this a lot when i
think about world building i think about
how
um diagrams
of something large
like help us to
find um
something
that is
um otherwise impossible
to
it's too big
even to imagine
games that came out of that period
include luxurious superbia
which had the same kind of idea of going
within
but it was a game that was meant for
touch screens so it was about touching
the screen and having different things
happen different reactions of this
never-ending journey through a tunnel it
was so sensual that actually the game
was
about
these sensations of you trying to uh
give pleasure to the
to the device that you're playing on and
the device reacting to your touch and
trying to give you pleasure in turn
and the other game that came out of that
universal idea was indeed this uh
cosmological diagram called lock
the game takes you on a journey from
earth out into
into space through all the celestial
spheres
and
we did our best to try and make this uh
i'm gonna fast forward a little bit
through to make this journey like feel
very much
like um
something that you were falling into or
that you were actually traveling through
um
so it goes through the planets and stars
and then every time you stop and you are
invited to sort of contemplate each each
sphere and it's purely
purely
a visual
stimulus stimulating kind of game but
again it was made for touch screens so
we always had this idea of like the
universe being something that you hold
in your palm
and
when you played this game on
your phone and you're tracing this
circle
because that is the only action that you
use to play the game
tracing the circle would leave the trace
of your
finger on the glass so you would turn
your your phone off and you would be
left with this perfect circle drawn on
the glass of your phone
um which to me was the thing that made
it
a game was this moment that you had
after you finished playing the game
where you had to contemplate what you
had just done and thinking about that
symbolism of that perfect circle that's
inscribed
on your device
my most recent body of work
has to do with
transforming
myself
into various characters
i'm working with 3d printed
sculpture
primarily
um i'm enjoying this notion that after
years of putting
um
objects in
environments and worlds inside of
computers and
putting people's bodies and imaginations
inside of computers i'm now trying to
pull those out
and um pull the characters out and also
to pull
them into the environment that um so
they can coexist with with the spectator
with you with the audience that normally
was asked to walk into a world that i've
built
um here are two pieces um one is minoria
uh
who
was the first character that i built
actually um
as a sculpture in 2017 she was a
character in a vr world actually in the
beginning
um
and the other is called snarl these both
have the same like uh genesis really i
mean they both come from my face uh 3d
scan that i made in my face and that
i've sculpted in the computer and using
that digital material that digital clay
which i then 3d print and put together
with
realist real sorry um
real clay
um so
uh i use water-based clay epoxy clay etc
and and then other objects so as you see
in snarl there i've got a fossil
attached
this notion of working in something very
precise like a 3d program and then
outputting it and
using it transforming it with organic
materials in order to
sort of have this dialogue between
the way
i work with precise tools and computers
and they are very
um
they work like machines but i am not a
machine so once it's out in to the world
i want to
be able to turn it into something more
handmade more human
on the
one side here we have the game which is
a drawing that i made and then on the
other side we have echo
which is a sculpture
made in resin
3d printed once again
these two pieces are both here because
they say something
about the place of transformation
in my work actually the one the game the
drawing is uh one that i started in
2017 um in the presence of this
sculpture that's at the capitol line
museum here in rome
that's called ephedrismos and it's of
two girls playing a game of piggyback or
we don't know what the game of ephedry's
most was this is like a game that was
played in you know
the year 300 bc or something
and um i started this drawing and then
uh decided to add my own silhouette to
it and i didn't know quite what i meant
by it and i was a little bit
thought it might have sort of a negative
connotation or something
and um
so i put the drawing away and then took
it back out in this year
to complete it because i didn't get rid
of it so there must have been something
about it that was hanging and it it
turned out to have a really
important thread in it for me
um where i realized that a lot of what i
had been doing with the 3d printed
sculpture and
everything since 2017 had to do with
this notion of inserting myself into
um antiquity or or inserting myself into
myths like making a minotaurus for
example
um
and uh then i decided that this was
actually quite a positive thing i mean
i'd like to come from this place of
positivity in my work i think you know
it's not that you can't be critical
because in fact
while i do see it as positive i also
think about
the fact that
as a black woman
how
i am surrounded by antiquity and admire
antique design antique sculpture
but um wondering where my place is among
all these things and i came to the
decision
through through this drawing actually
that it all kind of belongs to me and i
belong to it
that
while i have this diasporic um
background
my
life is um
is just as much about these stones about
these this cultural icon
of classical sculpture as it is about
anything else and that i wanted to
make myself
known as being
a part of these um things and that that
was something that no one could take
away from me in some ways um i hope that
makes sense but
i think through echo the other sculpture
i'm trying to make this more even more
explicit
where echo
is of course referring to the myth of
narcissism echo
where i'm trying to show
this
character this woman
who is wasting away and becoming only a
voice
and um
i want
this character to have a certain
importance
where it's usually in the myth not given
any importance at all she just followed
narcissists around and then wasted away
it's but i i wanted her to
she left behind us
behind for us
this uh effect that uh
is actually quite miraculous hearing
your own voice
magnified and then fade away
and and
in this beautiful uh effect of the echo
i don't know i i something always
attracts me to a myth or to a statue and
i try to
um
find through sculpture
what it is that is
really powerful about it for me
and so
again this was a
3d scanned and
then manipulated in the computer and
composed in in 3d
modeling programs
at output via a resin printer
so this is something that i do quite a
lot um in this case i'm showing you here
on this screen a physical sculpture and
a digital sculpture
um so my sculptures end up having three
lives always
i output them via 3d printing
[Music]
and
then that gives them a physical tangible
existence but then also
there is a digital version which is
viewable by anyone online
and i'm going to show you in the next
slides uh
some qr codes that you can scan with
your phone so that you can see the
digital sculptures
the third way that they live is on is
via ar
um i use ar uh in this case to show this
character of ox
and project them into the world when i
don't know when i need to feel like i
have a power figure near me
but the beautiful thing about working in
this way is that anyone can see my
sculpture anywhere they happen to be so
it's not contained within a digital
environment that you have to download
and you know all of this and
it's something that you can carry with
you once you've captured the qr code you
can open that on your phone and you can
save it to your home screen or whatever
and you have the sculpture to take with
you
um i really like to do this um
i mean i love the fact that um the
sculpture can be experienced uh with
your body so to speak like because you
when you project the ar it kind of feels
like it's there in the room with you and
if you give in to that illusion
you have this feeling like it is really
existing coexisting right next to you
um so and also i can have a kind of
exhibition anywhere that i like and in
this case i'm projecting my character of
the cyclops in the louvre museum next to
the ansam kefir
and and this is uh
i think also important it's like kind of
making it so that i can make the world
you know my sculpture exists in the
world as i see
other sculptures exist you know there's
this sort of um
until recently very much a prejudice in
some ways or a stigma about digital work
that it's not real you know i think this
is something that is changing and that
we are currently in a world where we are
surrounded by digital objects every day
and i think that this
ar is just
a beginning
of how we are going to see
digital artwork manifested in the future
thank you for listening to my talk
and um i hope you enjoy the rest of the
festival
and um
see you
and we're back um i'm here live with
julia greenway and oria harvey
what a fabulous presentation oria you
took us through such an incredible
history of your practice across media
across spaces across realities um
what how that was so rich
i wanted to
start out
by
talking to you about the capacity for
augmented reality because this is a
medium that you love um and that you
have been working with a lot in recent
years um notably you know i was talking
earlier about the pieces of me
exhibition we haven't uh we have an ar
work in that show um you also are do
putting out
work that is um available to you in vr
via different nft platforms at the
moment um and for me i really think of
ar as a really fascinating medium to
discuss in a worlding protocol context
because it feels like a medium where you
can make anything possible but there's a
slight disconnect between what you can
make and what the impact is in the world
in that you know you can change an
environment to do anything that you want
but can you touch it um and i think
that's a really i don't know i'm
wondering how you in your work kind of
balance that that kind of tension
well i actually think of it as slightly
differently i think like for me it's
like i also do a lot of work with vr so
it's like and also video games as i
mentioned so it's about always putting
people's bodies into uh virtual spaces
and having those bodies experience that
world but the thing about vr for me is
that vr doesn't really take imagination
because you really feel like you're
there like video games that are just
single screen like you know when you're
playing with a mouse or whatever a
joystick like you your body and your
mind are projected i think into that
space whereas
when you're in a vr it's like you're
really there so therefore you're you
don't need that same level of
imagination that you would have with
like a book say right
like a book you also project yourself
into the story somehow but then i think
with ar it's like taking these virtual
things and bringing them out into the
real world
and once again your imagination is
necessary like because you have to agree
with the illusion like and if you are
the kind of person or if you're inclined
to agree with this illusion that's being
presented to you through the screen
then you actually get the same sensation
that you get with a real object
you know what i mean
that's how it works for me anyway and
how i hope it works for other people
it's like so if i've done my job work
right with the sculpture or with the
experience that i'm making then the
person who is experiencing it really has
this
bodily feeling of being with something
um
and and to me that's what i'm always
trying to achieve is that thing where
you're like wow it looks so realistic or
it looks really interesting or
or what is this it's changing my
perception of something you know
whatever um
and so that's kind of how i view ar
as a vehicle for imagination really
yeah we were talking last night a little
bit about how
you know
just by imagining something you make it
possible and by allowing yourself to
dream you open up a dream or to simulate
you open up different possibilities that
might have not existed had had no one
ever had the thought um and i think that
that's you know i think that's that's
something that in in thinking of a
worlding protocol where we're
interconnected where um
that takes a holistic view and
incorporates all different kinds of
beings we were you know discussing the
living and the non-living with with
tabitha earlier earlier this morning um
you know
this seems like a
an approach that can help us get there
um in a lot of ways and it feels really
really practical to me
well i mean i don't i don't know i think
that ar is gonna is gonna really change
a lot like in the coming very near
future let's put it that way and so i'm
wondering actually what is going to
happen like you know and i'm sort of
imagining what i want to happen also and
working towards that
so i don't know i think there's a lot we
don't know about what's about to happen
with it with these technologies ar vr
and other digital technologies also
what do you want to see happen with ar
or what are you hoping like
um i'm actually
like i'm i'm one of these weirdos
actually hoping for that the ar glasses
are cool
but um
i also like um want to think see
different types of projection be
possible you know
and that kind of ar like projection
mapping these kinds of illusions i mean
i don't want it to go all dystopian and
stuff but
but at the same time i think there are
some beautiful things that can be done i
mean i'm always thinking as an artist as
a sculptor and
so it's like you know to me this is sort
of like a specialized thing it's not
like something that i want to see like
abused or used everywhere it's like i
think but i do think that for certain
spectacular
types of um
of displays and and stuff it could be
really like holograms like i love
holograms for example like i want to see
more holographic displays you know i
want to see
um these things become uh more
illusionistic and more about 3d since
that's my thing yeah
yeah
absolutely and i mean i think that
speaks also to your practice in the
sense that your work is really cross
media intermediate multi whatever you
want to say it it spans across different
kinds of material realities from the
virtual to the uh to the simulated you
know you know not just virtual but you
know like virtual in many different
forms we have for instance work that is
installed in the web browser work that
is viewable on a phone using a camera
system um you know work that's installed
in an immersive environment that the the
person will move through and interact
with um and then that comes out into the
physical world i mean your solo show at
bid forms from this year um which i'll
drop a link in the chat for for the
audience um was so beautiful and
represented that uh cros representing
how that work expands outwards and in
some ways your work speaks to this idea
that has always really inspired me by cc
moss i hope cece is listening i was
chatting to her earlier of expanded
internet art a kind of a term that she
coined that describes this moment and
this kind of work that is not meant to
be experienced as one thing but is meant
to be looked at as a holistic uh
interpretation of all the instantiate
instantiations of the artwork across all
different kinds of that's a beautiful
idea actually um i really love that i
mean because i'm definitely trying to
work with in that sense of you
experience the work in multiple ways and
that um that each of those is a
beautiful moment each of those different
ways that you can enter into the work or
experience the work or own the work or
be with the work you know is it's its
own experience and its own
yeah i don't know just different facets
of the whole thing which is kind of like
the to get to the for a moment to the
world that roddell and i made for the
gray area festival like this notion of
turning something around and in space
and like and losing your orientation
um our peace stellarium um
is is actually kind of us doing a
tribute to one another in a funny way
like you know it's like when we work
together on this it's like his
terrariums um are these little plants
that are locked in these crystal
crystal crystalline structures
and then i made these little star
children i was thinking a lot about um
myths about the night sky
and and and the way i usually work is
that things start in one place and then
i kind of iterate on an idea so it's
like this is the first time that i have
these star children
um and you know it's like it's it's
i thought of that piece as being called
um
like uh
oh there it is yeah
um
the stars are children of the night you
know and it's like and so we were making
a night environment but then we changed
we we inverted it and and it turned out
to be this really beautiful
like crystalline like kind of structure
where things kind of disappear and
reappear and there's a horizon but the
horizon is also constantly shifting
and so it's like you know you have the
universe of the stars and then you have
these plants so it's like i i love the
fact that it's sort of speaking more
about um
about nature
and and the universe
in a certain sense um these engines are
so simplistic that it's like you're
you're really forced to use these sort
of basics the essences of your ideas and
not get too crazy sometimes you know you
can get crazy quite easily but for us
the way that both of us think
like it was just such a nice
thing to to make something that was just
giving people space to like be in
something and be immersed in something
and be surrounded by something slowly
like changing their perception of of the
world and getting rid of the horizon and
you know shifting everything
um and i hope that um people enjoy being
inside there
it's quite a peaceful
um it's a it's slightly disorienting yet
very peaceful to be here you know
exactly didn't want it to be crazy it's
just you know it's disorienting but it
doesn't make you ill it just kind of
like
changes where you are
shifts slightly
the um you know the the the show the
exhibition is called diorama and the
idea was that you know we are using you
know
we took display 3d work in a web
environment you really have to strip
down the files to their core their core
shapes because there's just it just
won't load properly it's very difficult
with people with bandwidth in different
areas particularly folks who have low
bandwidth um to load these these kinds
of environments and so you know the
diorama really emerged as a exhibiting
technique that makes sense because you
know we can't give you the whole world
but we can give you the essence of it we
can give you this diorama this you know
window into it and then kind of lead you
towards towards that world um and you
know we'll also kind of you know you
know we talk about the exhibition text
but you know it's the diorama is a
colonial patriarchal racist exhibiting
format and has been used to create
damage in so many different ways so
another thing we wanted to do is take
that and repurpose it
you know make the diorama into something
that's expansive not something that's
confining
and i think that this work you know that
your collaboration with rydell like you
just speaks to that so beautifully um
i'd love to learn a little bit you know
i wonder if this idea of a diorama
resonates with you in any way oh
absolutely absolutely i love this notion
of actually
i love natural history museums like
dioramas and stuff like this absolutely
like and i think that radel and i just
really vibed off of not only the diorama
idea also because it fits so well with
his um
but also this sort of like making a
container look like infinity like you
know it's like because that's what a
diorama is it's like it's it's a small
box but it's like making you think that
you're like in a big open field you know
and so um you know it was like at first
he was kind of worried that this was
like some sort of like strange illusion
like true truman show kind of thing and
then i was just like no no no this is
like a really relaxing like you know so
i was i made the outer sphere and called
it the salatum you know where all the
stars are and like and um
and uh but i was inspired by those those
containers that he always did and then
we were trying to create this sort of
cosmological
um
environment you know where it's like um
yeah where where
you try to make this infinity happen um
stars you know stellatus stari stalatum
i don't know like sparkling uh we were
just thinking about all kinds of things
like this and that's where we kind of
got the name was for the solarium
um
and we just agreed and i think that's
great
yeah
it was a fun collaboration that's all
i'm going to say i can't wait to hear
rodnell's talk
no it was just like you know it was
really inspiring to me that you guys
collaborated so closely because you know
as a curator that's that's the dream
right like you want to bring like it's
not even about exhibiting the work it's
about bringing ideas together bringing
people together and making something
generative you know out of that um and
so that was really that was just you
know so special to to get to have this
this really special piece from the two
of you and i know that you know rodel
was you know he always admired you and
it was just great to make that
connection happen um which is awesome i
mean just so everybody knows rodel will
be speaking um this week uh he will be
talking this um
this
on the 25th
at uh 6 30 p.m pacific so tune on back
for that one it's going to be it's going
to be really great
um
i have you know i've been asking a lot
of questions and i want to give some
space for for julia to ask some
questions too but i do have one thing
that i want to talk about just to shift
focus a little bit um you know you got
your start in kind of the digital art
world making games um and making
interactive experiences for folks and
kind of you know moving through kind of
uh the net art um scene that was
happening at the time um and so i'd love
to know more about how game making has
informed your practice um because you
know you're no stranger to building
worlds as you showed endless forest
that's a fabulous world where people can
be co-present with each other um and so
yeah i'm just curious about that that
how that has played a role in your
career since then oh god well i learned
everything i know from making video
games as a matter of fact that's not
true not all of it um but before that i
was doing like you know websites and
stuff so i learned a lot about net
culture and like all this and it was a
huge part of my life actually being on
the early internet um in the mid and
late 90s um but then uh i would say that
i really learned like video games was
kind of my career you know it's like
that i took extremely seriously and um
and therefore worked with a ton of
people and learned like so much about
making
world building yes but also just the
craft of digital things because so many
people in the games industry are
extremely talented people you know um
and it's just like so i met so many
creative and talented people that i
learned from i must say um
but i'm glad i did even though i was
kind of annoyed by the games industry by
the time i stopped um
i'm glad i did it because i actually
learned something it took a while for me
to realize what i learned but it's like
but the fact that i can i can do
that i can think of my craft you know in
in a in a very um
free way you know it's like it's not
like i feel like i'm constantly like
battling things it's like i can just
kind of do it so
it's kind of nice to just be able to do
something
you know i and to get it getting to this
point was kind of a weird like road i
guess
yeah
so that's the thing about the game
ministry i i think that's the biggest
thing for me is that i learned something
and i'm amazed but you're still making
like games in your practice which you're
really not exactly i'm still using all
the tech though
okay using the tools and actually the
tools the tech the ideas in some cases i
still teach i teach game design
but at the same time i wouldn't say it
my practice is so different now from
when i made uh video games like
completely different yeah um the time
skills are like a lot shorter now like
making a game it's like a long term plan
um you know um and so now it's just like
i make i have projects and like you know
i can think
sort of
in as a group or series of things as
opposed to one big thing one get big
that's gonna come out two years from now
or something right right
yeah um
on you know what i have i want a final
note i know we're running out of time
and it's it's late in rome where you are
oreo um
gonna kill me if we don't eat dinner
soon
well i just have one more question for
you
and
you know your work particularly your
recent work these you know expanded
internet art object sculptures that
expand across material realities
they
are very rooted in many ways and
storytelling and in so many ways i mean
i don't want to like you know label you
or make put you in a box or anything but
in so many ways oria i see you as a
storyteller um and you know in in in
particular works for instance in uh
european stygian hand which is a
beautiful augmented reality and web
installed uh work as well as a physical
sculpture um you know you're retelling
the mythology of the stygian witches in
that piece
a lot of like different characters it's
i think a bit more like i'm i'm i'm
making things around a character
that appeals to me in some way and i'm
trying to like you know find the
sculptural form that goes along with
that story
that you know and telling the story
through the form in some way um but at
the same time it is and is not much like
the games i made it isn't is not related
to the to the story at all you know but
at the same time that's the root of it
that's the that's the
the inspiration the thing that that made
me that triggered something in my brain
to make the uh the artwork you know
um
totally
as a woman you want to ask a question i
don't know you're just like what's that
i was wondering if you wanted to ask a
question you were like
i would
no no no i mean no no okay okay
i misread sorry before
before we sign off or i'd also just want
to ask you do you have any advice
for world builders out there for how
they can approach these ideas and you
know in their own practices
um i'd say the biggest thing that i
always tell my students is to pay
attention to what is um what is
attracting you in the world in the real
world so like if you're sitting this
happened the other day if you're sitting
there and there's a big storm outside
and you're looking out the window and
suddenly you find yourself like afraid
like you know like oh this is a big
storm
should i get away from the glass you
know whatever like you know sort of
notice that moment you know that's an
exciting moment but it could be a quiet
moment like really pay attention to what
is what it is about a something that
makes you feel something like you know
and and then try to think of like rather
than replicating reality you know try to
get back that feeling that you had
whatever you know use your skills to get
that feeling back as opposed to trying
to use you know make photo realistic
trees or something try to get back that
feeling of the wind you know or
something like that which is abstract
when you say it like how am i gonna give
people the feeling of the wind when
they're just looking at the screen but
that's your that's your task that's
that's what world building is is you
want them to feel like they're there it
doesn't have to look
realistic it just has to feel
realistic so to speak
so that's my biggest world building tip
that and particle effects
you know what arya i know we've taken up
a lot of your time and you got to get
some dinner thank you so much for being
here
all right yeah thanks for having me
enjoy the rest of the festival everyone
and have a nice night wade and julia
thanks
bye thank you bye